W-13821219-security-architecture-kt (#1081)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/security-architecture.adoc

= Anypoint Runtime Fabric Security Architecture

> The Runtime Fabric architecture model provides a secure way to manage MuleSoft applications and API gateways deployed onto Runtime Fabrics anywhere, while providing a data flow capability that ensures you own, and controls, the source and destination of all your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Anypoint Runtime Fabric architecture model provides a secure way to manage MuleSoft applications and API gateways deployed onto Runtime Fabrics anywhere, while providing a data flow capability that ensures you own and control the source and destination of all your data.
```

Reviewer: Can you shorten this paragraph or break it up?  Do you need to say "providing a data flow capability? Can you simplify this by saying "Anypoint Runtime Fabric provides..."? 

The Anypoint Runtime Fabric provides a secure way to manage MuleSoft applications and API gateways deployed onto Runtime Fabrics anywhere and ensures that you own and control the source and destination of your data.

Reviewer: First mention in text: Anypoint Runtime Fabric
Global - Next mention: Runtime Fabric

> MuleSoft’s architecture model enables an Anypoint Runtime Fabric to be installed anywhere and managed centrally from Anypoint Platform’s cloud-based Anypoint Management Center, which includes Anypoint Runtime Manager, Anypoint API Manager, Anypoint Monitoring and Access Management. Under this model, all your data flows are controlled at the location of your Runtime Fabric installation with limited metadata and metrics stored in Anypoint Management Center. This metadata is used to assist you with managing, monitoring and troubleshooting Runtime Fabrics, integration runtimes and APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MuleSoft’s architecture model enables a Runtime Fabric to be installed anywhere and managed centrally from Anypoint Platform’s cloud-based Anypoint Management Center, which includes Anypoint Runtime Manager, Anypoint API Manager, Anypoint Monitoring and Access Management. Under this model, all of your data flows are controlled at the location of your Runtime Fabric installation with limited metadata and metrics stored in Anypoint Management Center. This metadata assists you with managing, monitoring, and troubleshooting Runtime Fabrics, integration runtimes, and APIs.
```

> This model is powered by a set of components running within the Runtime Fabric cluster referred to as the Runtime Fabric agent. The Runtime Fabric agent is responsible for establishing the connection to Anypoint Management Center, and acts as the conduit between the internal components which power Runtime Fabric (such as Kubernetes) and Anypoint Management Center. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model is powered by components that run within the Runtime Fabric cluster, referred to as the Runtime Fabric agent. The Runtime Fabric agent establishes the connection to Anypoint Management Center and acts as the conduit between the internal components that power Runtime Fabric (such as Kubernetes) and Anypoint Management Center. 
```

Reviewer: Is the Runtime Fabric agent the components? If so:
This model is powered by components referred to as the Runtime Fabric agent, which runs within the Runtime Fabric cluster.

== Runtime Fabric Data Flow

image::rtf-security-data-flow.png[Diagram of Runtime Fabric Data flow]

=== Activation Flow

> 

Reviewer: Global for the procedures: Needs a lead-in

> . As an authorized customer, you obtain a Runtime Fabric activation token from the Runtime Fabric Manager running on the Anypoint control plane. 

Reviewer: "Control plane" is a technical term. Is there another way to say this?

> . This activation token is then presented back to Runtime Fabric Manager during creation of the Runtime Fabric. Runtime Fabric Manager responds with a TLS certificate, CA chain, and read-only credentials to the Runtime Fabric container registry.

Reviewer: Gloal - (From Kim's edits) If you have extra text in a bullet, put the extra text on another line with a horizontal space before it.

* This activation token is then presented back to Runtime Fabric Manager during the creation of the Runtime Fabric. 
+
Runtime Fabric Manager

Reviewer: The second sentence is a separate step in the process.

. Runtime Fabric agent stores the certificate and CA chain in a Kubernetes Secret.
. Runtime Fabric agent stores the read-only Docker registry credentials in a Kubernetes Secret.

> . The TLS certificate and CA chain is used by the Runtime Fabric agent to establish a mutual TLS (mTLS) connection to Anypoint Management Center to communicate with Anypoint Runtime Manager.

Reviewer: Make this active.

> . The container registry credentials are used to pull Mule runtime images from the Runtime Fabric container registry.

Reviewer: Ditto

=== Management Flow

> . The mTLS tunnel protects all metadata between Anypoint Management Center and your Runtime Fabric. The tunnel is controlled and initiated from the Runtime Fabric agent.

Reviewer: Ditto. I will stop marking text that you can probably make active.

> . Application deployment messages contain metadata describing the application and its dependencies, along with links to Anypoint Management Center Configuration Resolver to fetch the Mulesoft application bundle and configuration from. The Configuration Resolver communication is also protected with the same mTLS credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Application deployment messages contain metadata that describes the application and its dependencies, along with links to Anypoint Management Center Configuration Resolver to fetch the Mulesoft application bundle and configuration from. The Configuration Resolver communication is also protected with the same mTLS credentials.
```

. You can use Anypoint Runtime Manager to manage and monitor applications in the Runtime Fabric cluster: 
+
image::rtf-security-runtime-manager.png[Runtime Manager UI with application status running]
+
* Management capabilities: start, stop, update MuleSoft applications

> * Monitoring capabilities: monitor CPU, memory and Mule metrics of applications 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Monitoring capabilities: monitor CPU, memory, and Mule metrics of applications 
```

+
image::rtf-security-anypoint-monitoring.png[Anypoint Monitoring UI with monitoring views and metrics of an application]
+
[start=4]

> . Optionally, you can use the Anypoint Analytics service to get insight into how your APIs are being used, and how they are performing. This is metric data sent directly to the Analytics API over a one way TLS connection xref:api-manager::analytics-landing-page.adoc[Mule API Analytics]. These metrics consist of data specific to requests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You can use the Anypoint Analytics service to get insight into how your APIs are being used and how they are performing. This metric data is sent directly to the Analytics API over a one way TLS connection xref:api-manager::analytics-landing-page.adoc[Mule API Analytics]. These metrics consist of data specific to requests:
```

+
image::rtf-security-anypoint-platform.png[Anypoint Platform UI showing requests by date for an API]
+

[start=5]
. Runtime Fabric agent and the MuleSoft applications and API gateway (powered by Mule runtime engine) are separate processes. In the event the Runtime Fabric agent stops working, or loses connectivity with Anypoint Management Center, the MuleSoft applications and API gateways continue to operate.
. MuleSoft applications and API gateways work as defined in your Mule flows, and no customer data will traverse to Anypoint Management Center. Your dataflow is specific to the application that was built and deployed to the runtime.

=== mTLS Certificate Renewal Flow

> . When the mTLS certificate is close to its expiration date, Runtime Fabric agent requests a renewed certificate from Anypoint Management Center, via the existing mTLS tunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. When the mTLS certificate is close to its expiration date, Runtime Fabric agent requests a renewed certificate from Anypoint Management Center via the existing mTLS tunnel.
```

. Anypoint Management Center responds with a new TLS certificate.
. Runtime Fabric agent overwrites the existing certificate with the new certificate.
. Runtime Fabric agent restarts and re-establishes the mTLS tunnel with the new certificate.

=== Anypoint Monitoring Certificate Renewal Flow

> . When the Anypoint Monitoring certificate is close to its expiration date, Runtime Fabric agent requests a renewed certificate from Anypoint Management Center, via the existing mTLS tunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. When the Anypoint Monitoring certificate is close to its expiration date, the Runtime Fabric agent requests a renewed certificate from Anypoint Management Center via the existing mTLS tunnel.
```

. Anypoint Management Center responds with a new certificate.
. Runtime Fabric agent overwrites the existing certificate with the new certificate.

> . Anypoint Monitoring containers watch the certificate for changes, and re-establish the connection with the new certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Anypoint Monitoring containers watch the certificate for changes and re-establish the connection with the new certificate.
```

> . Anypoint Monitoring containers watch the certificate for changes, and re-establish the connection with the new certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Anypoint Monitoring containers watch the certificate for changes and re-establish the connection with the new certificate.
```

=== MuleSoft Image Management

> . Vulnerability scanning and Sonar quality gates during build process.

Reviewer: These sentences are not procedure steps.

. All newer image pulls are triggered by customer only.
. MuleSoft remediates container images and applies available patches according to the normal remediation cadence.
..Critical vulnerabilities within 30 days
..High vulnerabilities within 90 days 
..Medium vulnerabilities within 180 days
..Low vulnerabilities within 360 days

===  Container Privilege Management

> 

Reviewer: Also not clear what these are. They are not steps.

. None of the containers needs to run as root in RTF.
. Extremely pared down utilities inside the containers.  
. No Kubernetes service account attached to any application containers.

Runtime Fabric agent and Mule cluster IP service are the two components in Runtime Fabric services that interact with Kubernetes control plane. For successful interaction, these components need all permissions on all resources in the cluster to perform any action.

== Metadata Types Stored in The Cloud

> There are 3 different metadata types that are stored in the cloud with this architecture:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following metadata types are stored in the cloud:
```

Reviewer: It is better not to have a specific number because if this changes, a writer might forget to change the lead-in.

* Runtime Fabric +

> The information about a Runtime Fabric cluster. Specifically: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information about a Runtime Fabric cluster. Specifically: +
```

= Anypoint Runtime Fabric Security Architecture

> The Anypoint Runtime Fabric provides a secure way to manage MuleSoft applications and API gateways deployed onto Runtime Fabrics anywhere and ensures that you own and control the source and destination of your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Runtime Fabric provides a secure way to manage MuleSoft applications and API gateways deployed onto Runtime Fabrics anywhere and ensures that you own and control the source and destination of your data.
```

> MuleSoft’s architecture model enables a Runtime Fabric to be installed anywhere and managed centrally from Anypoint Platform’s cloud-based Anypoint Management Center, which includes Anypoint Runtime Manager, Anypoint API Manager, Anypoint Monitoring and Access Management. Under this model, all of your data flows are controlled at the location of your Runtime Fabric installation with limited metadata and metrics stored in Anypoint Management Center. This metadata assists you with managing, monitoring and troubleshooting Runtime Fabrics, integration runtimes, and APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MuleSoft’s architecture model enables a Runtime Fabric to be installed anywhere and managed centrally from Anypoint Platform’s cloud-based Anypoint Management Center, which includes Anypoint Runtime Manager, Anypoint API Manager, Anypoint Monitoring and Access Management. Under this model, all of your data flows are controlled at the location of your Runtime Fabric installation, with limited metadata and metrics stored in Anypoint Management Center. This metadata assists you with managing, monitoring and troubleshooting Runtime Fabrics, integration runtimes, and APIs.
```

Reviewer: I suggest breaking the first sentence up because of its length.

> This model is powered by components that run within the Runtime Fabric cluster, referred to as the Runtime Fabric agent. The Runtime Fabric agent establishes the connection to Anypoint Management Center, and acts as the conduit between the internal components that power Runtime Fabric (such as Kubernetes) and Anypoint Management Center. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model is powered by components that run within the Runtime Fabric cluster, referred to as the Runtime Fabric agent. The Runtime Fabric agent establishes the connection to Anypoint Management Center. It also acts as the conduit between the internal components that power Runtime Fabric (such as Kubernetes) and Anypoint Management Center. 
```

== Runtime Fabric Data Flow

> Review the following diagram that cover the Runtime Fabric data flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the following diagram that shows the Runtime Fabric data flow:
```

image::rtf-security-data-flow.png[Diagram of Runtime Fabric Data flow]

=== Activation Flow

> The following list the activation flow process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following lists the steps in the activation flow process:
```

Reviewer: or "The activation flow process works as follows:" If you make this change, please make a similar one for the other lead-ins if it applies.

. As an authorized customer, you obtain a Runtime Fabric activation token from the Runtime Fabric Manager running on the Anypoint control plane. 
. This activation token is then presented back to Runtime Fabric Manager during creation of the Runtime Fabric. Runtime Fabric Manager responds with a TLS certificate, CA chain, and read-only credentials to the Runtime Fabric container registry.
. Runtime Fabric agent stores the certificate and CA chain in a Kubernetes Secret.
. Runtime Fabric agent stores the read-only Docker registry credentials in a Kubernetes Secret.
. The TLS certificate and CA chain is used by the Runtime Fabric agent to establish a mutual TLS (mTLS) connection to Anypoint Management Center to communicate with Anypoint Runtime Manager.
. The container registry credentials are used to pull Mule runtime images from the Runtime Fabric container registry.

> === Management Flow

Reviewer: In this section, it doesn't seem like you are documenting steps in a flow. Instead, it seems like you are describing the Anypoint Management Center.I think that you need to present this information in a different way. Is this really a process?

I will need to edit this again after you change the presentation.

The following list the management flow process:

. The mTLS tunnel protects all metadata between Anypoint Management Center and your Runtime Fabric. The tunnel is controlled and initiated from the Runtime Fabric agent.
. Application deployment messages contain metadata that describes the application and its dependencies, along with links to Anypoint Management Center Configuration Resolver to fetch the Mulesoft application bundle and configuration from. The Configuration Resolver communication is also protected with the same mTLS credentials.
. You can use Anypoint Runtime Manager to manage and monitor applications in the Runtime Fabric cluster: 
+
image::rtf-security-runtime-manager.png[Runtime Manager UI with application status running]
+
* Management capabilities: start, stop, update MuleSoft applications

> * Monitoring capabilities: monitor CPU, memory, and Mule metrics of applications 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Monitoring capabilities: monitor CPU, memory, and Mule application metrics
```

+
image::rtf-security-anypoint-monitoring.png[Anypoint Monitoring UI with monitoring views and metrics of an application]
+
[start=4]

> . You can use the Anypoint Analytics service to get insight into how your APIs are being used, and how they are performing. This metric data is sent directly to the Analytics API over a one way TLS connection xref:api-manager::analytics-landing-page.adoc[Mule API Analytics]. These metrics consist of data specific to requests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You can use the Anypoint Analytics service to get insight into how your APIs are being used and how they are performing. The service sends this metric data directly to the Analytics API over a one-way TLS connection xref:api-manager::analytics-landing-page.adoc[Mule API Analytics]. These metrics consist of data specific to requests:
```

Reviewer: This sentence is missing something: "...over a one way TLS connection Mule API Analytics"

+
image::rtf-security-anypoint-platform.png[Anypoint Platform UI showing requests by date for an API]
+

[start=5]

> . Runtime Fabric agent and the MuleSoft applications and API gateway (powered by Mule runtime engine) are separate processes. In the event the Runtime Fabric agent stops working, or loses connectivity with Anypoint Management Center, the MuleSoft applications and API gateways continue to operate.

Reviewer: "powered by Mule runtime engine" seems like marketing speak to me. I would remove it.

```suggestion
. Runtime Fabric agent,  MuleSoft applications, and API gateway are separate processes. If the Runtime Fabric agent stops working or it loses connectivity with Anypoint Management Center, the MuleSoft applications and API gateways continue to operate.
```

> . MuleSoft applications and API gateways work as defined in your Mule flows, and no customer data will traverse to Anypoint Management Center. Your dataflow is specific to the application that was built and deployed to the runtime.

Reviewer: Use the present tense.
Can you use another word besides "traverse"?

=== mTLS Certificate Renewal Flow

The following list the mTLS certificate renewal flow process:

. When the mTLS certificate is close to its expiration date, Runtime Fabric agent requests a renewed certificate from Anypoint Management Center, via the existing mTLS tunnel.
. Anypoint Management Center responds with a new TLS certificate.
. Runtime Fabric agent overwrites the existing certificate with the new certificate.
. Runtime Fabric agent restarts and re-establishes the mTLS tunnel with the new certificate.

=== Anypoint Monitoring Certificate Renewal Flow

The following list the Monitoring certificate renewal flow process:

. When the Anypoint Monitoring certificate is close to its expiration date, Runtime Fabric agent requests a renewed certificate from Anypoint Management Center, via the existing mTLS tunnel.
. Anypoint Management Center responds with a new certificate.
. Runtime Fabric agent overwrites the existing certificate with the new certificate.

> . Anypoint Monitoring containers watch the certificate for changes and re-establish the connection with the new certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Anypoint Monitoring containers re-establish the connection with the new certificate.
```

=== MuleSoft Image Management

The following list the image management process:

. Vulnerability scanning and Sonar quality gates during build process.
. All newer image pulls are triggered by customer only.
. MuleSoft remediates container images and applies available patches according to the normal remediation cadence.
..Critical vulnerabilities within 30 days
..High vulnerabilities within 90 days 
..Medium vulnerabilities within 180 days
..Low vulnerabilities within 360 days

===  Container Privilege Management

The following list the container privilege management process:

> . None of the containers needs to run as root in RTF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. None of the containers need to run as root in RTF.
```

Reviewer: RTF > Runtime Fabric

. Extremely pared down utilities inside the containers.  
. No Kubernetes service account attached to any application containers.

> Runtime Fabric agent and Mule cluster IP service are the two components in Runtime Fabric services that interact with Kubernetes control plane. For successful interaction, these components need all permissions on all resources in the cluster to perform any action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Runtime Fabric agent and Mule cluster IP service interact with Kubernetes control plane. To perform any action, these components need all permissions on all resources in the cluster.
```

== Metadata Types Stored in The Cloud

There are 3 different metadata types that are stored in the cloud with this architecture:

> * Runtime Fabric +

Reviewer: Global - add a horizontal space before the description:

* Runtime Fabric
+
Information about...

Information about a Runtime Fabric cluster. Specifically: +
+
** Name
** Region
** Cluster version
** Runtime Fabric agent version
** Associated environments

> ** Nodes, CPU, memory capacity, Kubernetes version, docker version, Kubernetes health warnings

Reviewer: Why are these metrics in one bullet when the others are listed separately?

* Mulesoft application +
The flow architecture that you create using Anypoint Studio. This flow architecture is metadata about your APIs, and you upload it to API Manager. MuleSoft applications are then deployed to the specified Runtime Fabric.

* Monitoring metrics (optional) +

> These are metrics about basic runtime status that are collected on a poll configured on the runtime. Specifically: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metrics about the basic runtime status that are collected on a poll configured on the runtime. Specifically: +
```

** CPU Usage - Past Hour, Current Time
** Memory Usage - Past Hour, Current Time
** Memory Total - Past Hour, Current Time
** Message Count - Past Hour, Current Time
** Response Time - Past Hour, Current Time
** Error Count - Past Hour, Current Time

* Analytics metrics (optional) +

> You can enable analytics metrics to get insight into how your APIs are used and how they perform. You can configure these metrics and store only the results for a maximum of 90 days. You can capture these metrics: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable analytics metrics to get insight into how your APIs are used and how they perform. You can configure these metrics and store the results for a maximum of 90 days. You can capture these metrics: +
```
